[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GREGG BRADEN: Hello.
My name's Gregg Braden.
And I'd like to welcome you to
this very special presentation
of "The Divine Matrix"--
Bridging Time, Space,
Miracles, and Belief.
In the last episode,
we discovered
the rules of the matrix and
how the seemingly insignificant
choices we make in
our everyday lives
can show up in the world around
us in very unexpected ways.
Well, in this
episode, we'll explore
how we're in a constant
dialogue with the field,
and how to recognize
the messages that come
to us from inside the matrix.
The Divine Matrix
fulfills three properties
in the world around us
when we think of ourselves
in the universe.
Number one, as we
mentioned, it's
the container for all things.
Number two, it's the bridge
between the world within us
and the world beyond us.
Number three, it is a
mirror in the outer world
for what it is that we
create, both consciously
and subconsciously,
in our inner world--
our thoughts, our
feelings, emotions,
and our conscious and
subconscious beliefs.
So what we know from
this perspective
is that we are
literally living in what
is called a reflected reality.
Now, this is a little
bit different way
of thinking about things.
Because when we talk
about a reflected reality,
we typically think of a
projector in one place
in a linear fashion, projecting
into or upon the screen
that is across the room or
on the other side of a field.
The way that this mirror works
is, on the quantum level,
the mirror is
everywhere all the time.
It's not just in one place
in the moment in time.
It's behind us.
It's in front of us.
It's within us.
It is without us.
And maybe the best way to
share what I mean by this
is through specific examples.
And these are true
stories that I'd
like to share with you, in
terms of people's relationships
with the things that they share
their most intimate experiences
with--
our homes, our automobiles,
and other people.
So maybe you've had
this experience,
where you have an
automobile, for example,
that runs perfectly as long
as you're the one driving.
And as soon as someone
else gets behind the wheel,
something begins to happen.
Or you have an automobile
while you're driving
that's having a problem.
And the moment you take it
to a mechanic or someone that
is qualified to diagnose that
problem and they begin driving,
nothing happens.
Have you ever had
that happen to you?
Well, if you have,
you're not alone.
I had a 1984 Pontiac
6000 when I was
working in the corporations
in Denver, Colorado.
And I took really good
care of my Pontiac.
And it had over 300,000
miles on it before I
traded it in on another vehicle.
My home in northern New Mexico,
in a rural area in northern New
Mexico, is about four hours
from the Albuquerque airport,
where I typically
fly in and out.
So when I would
drive back and forth,
I would end up putting a
lot of miles on my vehicle.
And I eventually began to
have someone else drive me
to the airport and drive me
back-- sometimes in my vehicle,
sometimes in theirs.
And inevitably,
the person driving,
I would go to the
airport, and I'd call.
And they'd say, OK, well,
I've made it back home.
But have you had problems
with your brakes,
or have you had problems
with the ignition?
Or something would happen.
And when I would get home
and drive my own car,
everything would be fine.
So these kinds of
experiences, they
extend beyond our vehicles.
But when they do
happen to a vehicle,
let me just share
with you an insight
of what might be happening.
If you consider the function
of the part of the vehicle that
is having a problem-- maybe it's
the transmission, for example,
or maybe it's the brakes.
Maybe it's the ignition.
Consider the function that that
part plays in the automobile.
And then ask yourself how that
function applies to what's
happening in your life.
For example, I live in
an artist's community
in northern New Mexico.
And it's very common
that the artists--
the musicians, the
designers, the writers
that are so creative
in their lives--
often have a difficult
time making a living
and supporting themselves
through their creations.
So they have to have
other jobs to do that.
And it's very common
for those people
to have problems
with their vehicles.
And nine times out
of 10, it's going
to be a transmission problem.
What does that mean?
Well, think about this.
The engine of the car
is creating the energy.
And their engine
is running fine.
Their creative engines
are rolling all the time.
The transmission
in the vehicle is
what takes the energy
from the engine
and transfers it
in a meaningful way
to the differential in the
wheels so the vehicle to move.
What's happening in their
lives is, their transmission,
their ability to translate their
powerful, masterful creations
into something
meaningful in their lives
is where they are
having the problems.
It's where they're stuck.
So it doesn't apply
100% of the time.
But these are
metaphors that show up
in our physical world for
what's happening within us.
Let me just share with you
a couple of other stories.
I had a friend in
the early 1990s who
I would see about once a week.
It was a woman.
I was just very good
friends with her.
And I went to see her
on a Thursday afternoon.
And I said, well, how
are things in your life?
And she said, you
wouldn't believe
what's happening in my life.
I said, well, try me.
She said, my
boyfriend and I were
sitting on the couch
in the living room.
We heard this crash
in the bathroom.
And we went into the
bathroom and looked.
And the hot water pipe had
blown apart under the vanity,
had blown the door off of
the hinges in the vanity
into the sheet rock on the
other side of the bathroom wall.
And I said, wow.
I said, that's a
pretty big story.
She goes, I'm not finished yet.
She said, we went to the
garage to get into the vehicle
to go to the hardware store
and get what we needed
to fix the vanity door,
and there was hot water
all over the garage floor.
The water heater had exploded.
And I said, wow.
I said, what do you
think that's all about?
She says, I'm not done yet.
She said, while we were
backing down the driveway,
the lower radiator hose in
the car we were in blew up,
and there was hot radiator
fluid all over the driveway.
And I said, wow.
I said, this is a very
interesting story,
from my perspective.
Because we live in
this reflected reality.
And so I asked her, what's
happening in your life
right now?
And she said, this
relationship I'm in.
She called it the
never-ending date.
They had been
together for 11 years.
They couldn't move forward
to a deeper commitment,
but they couldn't
end the relationship.
They were stuck.
And the emotional
pressure from being stuck
was present in both of
their lives all the time.
And as she was
telling me this story
about being stuck in the
relationship and the pressure
that she was feeling in her
relationship, she looked at me
and she said, you
wouldn't believe
what's happening in this house.
She said, our house, it
feels like a pressure cooker.
And then she stopped
and she said,
you don't suppose
that what's happening
in my relationship has anything
to do with what happened
in the bathroom, with the hot
water heater, and with the car,
do you?
And I said, well,
in my world, it
has everything to do
with it, because we
live in this reflected reality.
It's very, very different
way of thinking about things.
In the late 1990s,
my mother and I,
we talked about once
a week on the phone.
She was living alone in
Albuquerque, New Mexico.
I was traveling
all over the world.
And I'd try to call
her every Sunday, just
to check in with
her and see what
was happening in her world.
And one day I called
her, a Sunday afternoon,
and I asked, how
are things going?
And she said, I'm OK.
But she says, I'm
concerned about my dog.
My mom's dog, next
to her two sons--
myself and my younger brother--
her dog was like the third
son that she never had.
Her dog's name was Corey Sue.
Corey Sue was a little terrier.
And Mom loved this
dog so much, and they
were constant companions.
So this dog was with
my mom almost 24/7.
I said to my mom, what's
happening with your dog?
What's happening with Corey Sue?
She said, I took her to the vet.
She was a little lethargic.
She was sleeping all the time.
I thought maybe
something was wrong.
And the vet X-rayed her,
and she has black spots
all over her lungs.
She said, I'm very
concerned about that.
What do you think about that?
So I said, of course, I'm
concerned about Corey Sue.
But I said, in my world,
the vehicles that we share
our time with, the homes
that we share our time with,
the animals and other people
they often will reflect in
themselves the conditions that
often happen before they ever
show up within our bodies.
So I said, how are you, Mom?
What's happening with you?
She said, you know, I
went to have a physical
and everything checked out fine.
I said, did you have
an X-ray of your lungs?
She said, that's the one part
of the physical that I put off.
She said, I'm going to go
back and do that later.
And I said, well, why
are you going to wait?
She said, well,
I'm going to wait
until I get the house
painted, until I get
the yard done, until I
get the flowers planted,
until I get the new
side put in, until I
get some work done on the car.
And I said, Mom,
you're procrastinating.
Just have it done.
And I called her the next week.
I said, Mom, did
you get your X-ray?
And she said no.
I said, Mom, go have the X-ray.
She went and had the X-ray.
Lo and behold, the
X-ray showed a spot
on her lung that was
a cancerous spot.
She had had TB as a child.
The TB had healed, developed
the scar tissue around the TB.
And now, at her age, that scar
tissue had become cancerous.
So I went with Mom
through a whole process
of finding doctors and
finding the hospital.
And she opted to
have the surgery
to have this cancerous place
removed, and, in doing so,
ended up losing 2/3
of her left lung.
Here's why I'm
sharing this story.
After her recovery--
Mom did recover 100%.
And she was cancer free.
She's cancer free to this day.
I asked her, what's
happening with Corey Sue?
And she said, you're not
going to believe this.
I said, try me.
She said, I took her back to
the vet and had the X-rays done,
and all the black spots in
her lungs had disappeared.
They're not there any longer.
And I said, you know, I'm
in awe when I hear it,
but I'm not surprised.
Because there's a
very good possibility
that your dog unconditionally
loves so deeply,
without the expectations,
without the judgments,
without the good or the bad
or the right or the wrong.
Our animals simply reflect
the field of energy
that is the field
that we are creating.
They reflect it in their lives.
And if we know that,
then we are often
given the opportunity to receive
messages from them about what's
happening in our lives.
And if we don't know that--
I've had friends that have
had to keep getting new pets,
because they say the old
pets, they always get sick.
They say, my pets get
sick all the time.
I need a new one.
I need a good one.
When in truth, those pets may
be unconditionally reflecting
to the owner, my friends in
this case, the conditions that
have yet to show up in
the owner's body, but
are there in the energetic
field, in the Divine Matrix.
So this is an example of how
our relationship to this field
can show up in very common ways,
everyday in our lives, in ways
that we may discount.
But as we gain the wisdom
to recognize this deeper
relationship we have
with the matrix,
then the matrix
begins to tell us
about where we are in our
lives, about the quality
of the choices that we make.
It begins to inform
us so that we
can become wiser in the
choices that we're making.
And this is especially
true when it
comes to our personal
relationships,
the most intimate relationships
that we have in our lives.
Because where we find the
deepest hurt, the deepest pain,
the greatest joy, and
the greatest ecstasy,
this is where the
matrix is going
to show us our deepest,
sometimes unconscious beliefs.
And this is what I want to
talk to you about right now.
I want to talk to you
about the ancient mirrors
of human relationship.
And they are ancient.
Because the experiences that
play out in our everyday lives
right now in the modern
world, although they play out
in modern ways, the principles
are the same principles that
played out 2,500 years ago.
And that's where
this mystery begins.
2,500 years ago, there
was a mysterious sect
of people that showed
up in the Middle East.
They were not understood
well in their day.
And they're still
a mystery today.
They are called the Essenes.
E-S-S-E-N-E-S. And the ancient
Essenes are believed to be
the scribes for the
Dead Sea Scrolls,
the oldest records
of the Old Testament,
in the Hebrew as well
as the Christian Bible.
They are also believed to be the
scribes for the New Testament--
the information that is
contained in a library,
interestingly, that was found
just about the same time
that the Dead Sea
Scrolls were found.
So the Dead Sea Scrolls,
the oldest records
of the Old Testament, in
the village of Nag Hammadi,
along the banks of the
Nile River in Egypt--
an ancient library
was discovered
that is called the
Nag Hammadi library.
And the story is as fascinating.
There aren't many trees that
grow along the Nile River.
A young Egyptian boy
was given the task
by his mother to go out and find
firewood to burn in the home,
so that they could heat their
home and cook their meals.
And this very ingenious
young boy said to himself--
and I'm paraphrasing.
I wasn't there--
not many trees here,
but I know where I can
find things to burn.
He went to an ancient tomb that
he had found with some friends,
and he began bringing back
books of ancient parchment.
And no one knows
for sure how many
of these books of parchment
were burned for fuel
and destroyed before the
authorities found out
about them.
But the books that
remain today are
what are called the
Nag Hammadi library.
And in the Nag Hammadi library
are some of the texts--
many of the texts--
that were edited by the Catholic
church in the fourth century
when the emperor Constantine
took 43 of the books
from the original biblical canon
and completely removed them
and condensed and rearranged
the remaining books into the New
Testament that we have today.
So we know the information was
lost, because the Nag Hammadi
library is showing us
that intact information.
And among the things
it is showing us--
this is so very,
very powerful, there
is one of the books that is
called the Gospel of Thomas.
Thomas was a scribe.
And it is if the scribe were
following the master Jesus
when he shared his teachings.
And I'm going to talk about this
from a historical perspective
as a highly learned
man and as a scholar,
not from a religious
perspective,
for the purposes of
what we're doing here.
Because Jesus was an Essene.
The Essenes were
known by the Egyptians
not by the word Essene, but
by the word Therapeutae.
Therapeutae.
Because they were healers.
They understood the relationship
between the human body
and this field around
us, as well as within us.
And these understandings
were reflected
in the teachings of
the master Jesus,
specifically when he was talking
about human relationships.
And I'm going to share
with you three mirrors
of human relationship
that he alluded to,
and how they can play
out in our lives today.
And if you've never
seen this before,
I think you'll be in awe--
maybe not surprised,
but in awe--
at how accurate
these mirrors are,
how they could have
been known so long ago,
and how they're still playing
out in our lives today.
So let me talk to you about the
first mirror of relationship.
Jesus spoke in parables.
He was not a scientist.
So he used stories to talk
about these specific mirrors.
So I'd like to share with
you, in his own words,
how he described the first
mirror of human relationship.
Mirror number one,
and this is a quote.
He said, "You read the face
of the sky and of the Earth,
but you have not recognized
how to read this very moment."
What he's talking
about in this parable
is the simplest of
all the mirrors.
The mirrors become more
complex, more sophisticated,
as they increase
two, three, and four.
Mirror number one
is the most obvious.
It's the mirror of the moment.
He's talking to us about
the mirror of the moment.
And this is the mirror
that you probably
are most familiar with.
It became popularized
in the mid-1980s
during the time of the
Harmonic Convergence,
when the New Thought movement,
the New Age movement,
was becoming very popular.
And it was often used
in a very cruel way.
People would often say, if you
don't like what's happening
in your life, look at yourself.
Because your life is just
showing you who you are.
So if you're surrounded
by angry people,
it's showing you your anger.
If you're surrounded
by hurtful people,
it's showing you your hurt.
If you're surrounded by
people who aren't honest,
it's showing you
your dishonesty.
And they didn't allow
for any other mirrors.
And this was a very,
very hurtful way
of thinking about this mirror.
But this is how we learn.
This was the community
of New Thought people
becoming aware of the
mirrors and the complexity
of the mirrors.
They were beginning
with mirror number One.
So sometimes, it's true.
Sometimes, the world
around us-- our co-workers,
our friends, our most
intimate relationships--
are showing us who
we are in the moment.
And if that's true--
if you ask yourself, are
these people showing me myself
in the moment, then you know
where your workshop begins--
in healing what's happening.
But there are other mirrors.
And sometimes, this
is not the case.
So I want to share
with you just quickly
a story that illustrates
the second mirror.
The early 1990s, three
people came into my life,
all in the same month.
And that should
have been my clue.
It should have been the heads
up that something big was
about to happen.
Because almost immediately,
all three of them
began to make me crazy.
One of them was a
business relationship,
one was a friendship, and one
was a romantic relationship.
And I had a pattern.
I was traveling a lot
for business at the time.
And rather than dealing
with these people,
I would say, you
know, if I could just
get by another couple of days,
I'm going to go on a trip
to another event, and then I'll
deal with it when I come back.
And that's what I would do.
And I would do this again
and again and again.
Well, one day, I came
home from an event.
And what I found was that I came
home to an empty bank account.
One of the people in my
series of relationships--
the romantic relationship--
had drained my bank account.
It was empty.
And it forced me
to stop everything
that was happening in my
life, because I couldn't
do anything else, and come to
terms with what was happening.
The business relationship-- I
had just been on a long tour.
The businessman
called me and said,
the good news is, the tour's
over and everything's paid for.
The flip side is,
there's no money left
to give you after the tour.
We broke even.
The third part of the
relationship was a friendship.
Now, this was in
the early 1990s.
And this is in the
state of New Mexico.
And I'm saying this
because my friend, who
was living on my land in
a home that I was loaning
to my friend, in exchange for
watching my land while I was
traveling, during the
time I was traveling,
had chosen to embark
upon growing hash
crop that was illegal
in the state of New
Mexico in the 1990s.
So I think you know
where that's going.
So each of these people
had done something
that had violated
my trust, that had
violated our confidence, that
had betrayed me in some way.
They did something
that wasn't honest.
I took a long walk
down a dirt road,
where I've created entire
books when I walk on this road.
You don't to worry about
traffic or other people.
It is a road that
goes on and on and on.
And while I was
walking on this road,
I asked myself this question.
I said, obviously,
something is up for me
with these relationships.
What are these
people showing me?
What is the common theme
that runs through each one
of these relationships?
And immediately,
this inner voice
came up and said,
honesty, trust, integrity.
Now, in the old way of
thinking about mirrors,
I would have taken
that to say that there
was a problem with my honesty,
my trust, my integrity.
And I asked from within.
I said, are these
people showing me
that I'm not honest, that
I don't have integrity,
that I lack trust?
And this voice welled up
inside and screamed, no, no.
That's what your
work is all about.
It's all about honesty,
trust, and integrity.
And immediately, that same voice
illuminated the second mirror
of relationship that I want
to share with you right now.
These people in
these relationships,
they were not showing me
what I was in the moment.
They were not showing me that
I lacked trust and integrity
and honesty.
They were showing me what
I judged in the moment.
And that's the second mirror--
the second mirror
of what we judge.
And it was true.
I had a powerful
charge on honesty,
on trust, and on integrity.
And that mirror was so powerful
and the energy was so powerful
that it was showing up
in three of the most
significant
relationships of my life.
This is an example of how
that second mirror shows up.
And when you think
about your own life,
look at the people in your life.
Look at what
they're showing you.
Ask yourself through
your intuition.
Close your eyes.
Go into your heart.
And say, are the people around
me-- my friends, my lovers,
my siblings, my
children, my co-workers--
are they showing me what
I am in the moment, when
they make me crazy, when
they make me angry, when
they push all those buttons?
If the answer is
yes, as I said, you
know where your workshop begins.
But if the answer is no,
there's a very good possibility
that they may be showing you the
second mirror of relationship--
not what you are in
the moment, rather,
what you judge in the moment.
And that's mirror number two.
I want to share with
you a third mirror.
And this is one of the most
powerful mirrors for me.
And I'm going to
begin with a parable
from Jesus, from
the master, again,
because it's such a
beautiful parable.
And what Jesus said is this.
"The kingdom of my father
is like a certain woman who
is carrying a jar full of meal.
While she was walking on a road,
still some distance from home,
the handle of the jar broke, and
the meal emptied out behind her
on the road.
She did not realize it.
She had not noticed
the incident."
Now I want you to think
about this parable
and what it's saying
and what it means to you
and how it applies in your life.
Let me share with
you an insight.
In this parable,
you are the vessel.
And the meal that's inside
the vessel is your love.
And as you-- and myself,
because we're in this together--
go through life, we find
ourselves in situations
where we give ourselves
away to compromise.
We give ourselves away
to keep the peace.
We give ourselves away,
sometimes consciously
and sometimes unconsciously.
Little by little by little,
we compromise ourselves.
And that is like
the meal draining
from that jar
throughout our lives.
And then at some point, we find
ourselves in a relationship
where we truly want to
give ourselves to love.
And we reach inside the
vessel of us, and it's empty.
Because we've given
all that love away.
We've compromised that love.
That's what this
mirror is all about.
It is a powerful mirror.
Let me share with
you how it works.
If you've ever felt a
really powerful attraction
to another person for reasons
that you could not explain--
you might be in a perfectly
happy relationship.
Maybe you're in a
committed relationship.
Maybe you're married.
And a friend or a co-worker
or someone in a grocery
store-- all of a sudden, you
find yourself powerfully,
magnetically attracted
to this other person.
This is how this
mirror plays out.
Now, often, we never get
to understand the mirror,
because our culture says it's
wrong to have those feelings.
So we spend our time
denying and hiding
and discounting the feelings.
Let me invite you
to try something.
Next time this
happens-- and it will
happen, because it
happens to all of us,
if we're honest about it.
Next time you find
yourself powerfully
drawn to another
person for reasons
that you may not understand,
ask yourself subconsciously
this question.
I'm not saying to
do it out loud.
But if you find yourself
powerfully drawn to a person,
engage them in conversation
about anything.
How's the weather?
How's your day?
How's the family?
Whatever it is.
While you're talking to them,
ask this question silently
inside of yourself.
What is it that I
see in this person
or that I sense in
this person that I've
lost, given away, or had
taken from me by those
who had power over me?
And you'll be amazed
at what comes to you.
You'll be amazed at the inner
voice, the inner insights that
come back and say to you, there
is a quality about the person
that you're magnetically
drawn to that you aspire to.
This is what the
attraction is all about.
And we feel this powerful
magnetic attraction.
The master is telling us why.
As we compromise, as we give
away pieces of ourselves,
some of us have
those pieces taken
by those who have power
over us when we're young.
And the pattern continues
throughout our lives.
As those things happen, you
and I will search the world.
Because we long to be complete.
We long for the
wholeness that can only
come from finding
those pieces again.
And when we find ourselves in
the presence of someone who
has what it is that we've lost,
given away, or had taken away,
and we say, I feel really
good around this person,
I feel whole, I feel complete--
couples often say, it's my
other half, my better half.
I'm complete with this person.
And we laugh when we
hear that as a metaphor.
But they may be actually
telling you the deepest
truth of their deepest secret--
that they are now in the
presence of someone that
fills in the gaps, that
completes the places
that they've lost or given away.
And we will continue
in these relationships,
and allow those people
to reflect back to us
what it is that we long to have,
until, subconsciously or maybe
consciously, we remember and we
reclaim that part of ourselves.
And this is where it
gets really interesting.
Because when we
reclaim those parts,
we no longer feel
the attraction.
And if we don't know
what just happened,
we say, oh, well, I'm
not in love anymore.
When the truth is that you
may be in a relationship
where the love is so deep, that
you are now more complete, more
whole, and healthier than you
have been for a very long time.
And then the question
becomes, do I
continue this relationship
because of that love?
How deep can we go
and how far can we
go in this new way of being?
Or do you find
yourself in a place
where you say, you know what?
I want to find another
piece of myself.
So you find another
person where you feel
that deep, powerful attraction.
So we're just barely
scratching the surface.
But I want to give you the
insights of how powerful
these mirrors are in our lives.
And once again, I'm going to
bring this back to the theme
of this entire series.
These mirrors are playing
out through the stuff
that fills the empty space
of the field of this matrix,
of the Higgs field,
of the divine matrix,
or whatever it is
we want to call it.
Because what's happening between
you and that other person
has to be happening through
the conduit of this field.
Mirror number three is
the mirror of the things
that we've lost, given
away, or had taken away
within ourselves.
And while the mirrors of
our reflected reality are
fascinating-- they're giving us
deeper insights into our very
existence--
even those mirrors
are playing out
from inside of an
even deeper mystery.
They're happening within
the Divine Matrix.
And they're part
of a mystery that
has haunted scientists
for over 300 years.
The mystery I'm talking about
is the mystery of time itself.
After 300 years of theories
and equations and experiments,
we still don't know
precisely what it is
and exactly how it
fits into our lives.
Well, in the next episode,
I'll share the mind boggling
discovery that's
forever changed the way
we think of time in our lives.
I want to thank you for
joining me for today's program.
And be sure to tune
in for our next
all new episode of
"The Divine Matrix"--
Bridging Time, Space,
Miracles, and Belief.